# Chapter 2: Compute in the cloud

## EC2 / ECC / Elastic Compute Cloud
Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) is a web service with which you can run virtual server “instances” in the cloud. EC2 instances can run the Windows, Linux, or MacOS operating systems. It is designed to make web-scale cloud computing easier for developers.

### Benefits of EC2
  - **Elastic Web-Scale computing** – you can increase or decrease capacity within minutes not hours and commission one to thousands of instances simultaneously.
  - **Completely controlled** – You have complete control include root access to each instance and can stop and start instances without losing data and using web service APIs.
  - **Flexible Cloud Hosting Services** – you can choose from multiple instance types, operating systems, and software packages as well as instances with varying memory, CPU and storage configurations.
  - **Integrated** – EC2 is integrated with most AWS services such as S3, RDS, and VPC to provide a complete, secure solution.
  - **Reliable** – EC2 offers a highly reliable environment where replacement instances can be rapidly and predictably commissioned with SLAs of 99.99% for each region.
  - **Secure** – EC2 works in conjunction with VPC to provide a secure location with an IP address range you specify and offers Security Groups, Network ACLs, and IPSec VPN features.
  - **Inexpensive** – Amazon passes on the financial benefits of scale by charging very low rates and on a capacity consumed basis.

### Metadata and User Data:
  - User data is data that is supplied by the user at instance launch in the form of a script.
  - Instance metadata is data about your instance that you can use to configure or manage the running instance.
  - User data is limited to 16KB.
  - User data and metadata are not encrypted.
  - Instance metadata is available at http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data
  - Dynamic details is available at http://169.254.169.254/latest/dynamic

### EC2 Instance types
Each EC2 instance type is grouped under an instance family. Instance types offer different combinations of storage, memory, processing power.
  - **General purpose**: Balanced resources.
    - application servers
    - gaming servers
    - backend servers
    - small and medium databases
  - **Computer optimized**: High-performance processors.
    - high-performance web servers
    - compute-intensive applications servers
    - dedicated gaming servers
    - batch processing
  - **Memory optimized**: Designed to deliver fast performance for workloads that process large datasets in memory.
    - a workload that requires large amounts of data to be preloaded before running an application.
    - real-time processing of a large amount of unstructured data
  - **Accelerated computing**: use hardware accelerators, or coprocessors, to perform some functions more efficiently.
    - graphics applications
    - streaming
    - Floating point number calculations
    - Data pattern matching
  - **Storage optimized**: designed for workloads that require high, sequential read and write access to large datasets on local storage. (High performance for locally stored data),
    - distributed file systems
    - data warehousing applications
    - high-frequency online transaction processing (OLTP) systems

### EC2 Pricing
  - **On-demand instance**
      - Good for users that want the low cost and flexibility of EC2 without any up-front payment or long term commitment.
      - Applications with short term, spiky, or unpredictable workloads that cannot be interrupted.
      - Dev and test server.
      - Not recommended for workloads that last a year or longer.
  - **Saving plans**
      - 1-year or 3-year term.
      - Up to 72% off.
      - you commit to a consistent amount of compute usage for a 1-year or 3-year term
  - **Reserved instance**
      - On demand instance with 1-year or 3-year term
      - Standard Reserved Instances (RIs) provide up to 75% off on-demand price.
      - Convertible RIs provide up to 54% off on-demand price – provides the capability to change the attributes of the RI as long as the exchange results in the creation of RIs of equal or greater value.
      - Scheduled RIs are available to launch within the time window you reserve. This option allows you to match your capacity reservation to a predictable recurring schedule that only requires a fraction of a day, a week, or a month.
      - At the end of term, it will continue as On demand instance.
  - **Spot instance**
      - Applications that have flexible start and end times.
      - Up to 90% off
      - Ideal for workloads with flexible start and end times, or that can withstand interruptions.
      - Amazon can terminate your instances with 2 minute notice.
      - If Amazon terminates, you do not pay. If you terminate, you pay for the hour.
  - **Dedicated hosts**
      - Physical servers dedicated just for your use.
      - You have control over which instances are deployed on that host.
      - Available as On-Demand or with Dedicated Host Reservation.
      - Useful if you have server-bound software licences that use metrics like per-core, per-socket, or per-VM.
      - Each dedicated host can only run one EC2 instance size and type.
      - Good for regulatory compliance or licensing requirements.
      - Predictable performance.
      - Complete isolation.
      - Most expensive option.
      - Billing is per host.
  - **Dedicated instances**
      - Virtualized instances on hardware just for you.
      - Also uses physically dedicated EC2 servers.
      - Does not provide the additional visibility and controls of dedicated hosts (e.g. how instance are placed on a server).
      - Billing is per instance.
      - May share hardware with other non-dedicated instances in the same account.
      - Available as On-Demand, Reserved Instances, and Spot Instances.
      - Cost additional $2 per hour per region.
  - Besides that, the price can vary based on:
      - Instance type (micro, small, large, etc). Instance type refers to a combination of resources such as CPU, memory, storage, and networking capacity.
      - Selected region
      - Number of instances
      - Load balancing
      - Allocated elastic IP addresses

### EC2 scaling
  - **Vertical scaling**: EC2 are resizable as well, you can upgrade or downgrade hardware aspects of the instance such as: processing power, memory and hard disk.
  - **Horizontal scaling**: creating new instances and adding them to the pool
      - **Dynamic scaling / Auto scaling**: responds to changing demand.
      - **Predictive scaling**: schedule the right number of EC2 based on predicted demand.

### Elastic load balancing (ELB)
Load balancing distributes incoming application traffic across multiple resources and its built on regional construct, it runs on regional level. The ELB has the following characteristics:
  - High performance
  - Cost-efficient
  - Highly available
  - Automatically scalable

AWS provides different ELB solutions for each kind of work load:
   - Application load balancer: load balancing of HTTP and HTTPS traffic
   - Network load balancer: load balancing TCP traffic
   - Classic load balancer: basic load balancing across multiple Amazon EC2 instances. The classic load balancer is intended for applications that were built within the EC2-classic network.

### Amazon Machine Images (AMI)
An Amazon Machine Image (AMI) provides the information required to launch an instance. You must specify an AMI when you launch an instance. You can launch multiple instances from a single AMI when you need multiple instances with the same configuration. You can use different AMIs to launch instances when you need instances with different configurations. An AMI includes the following:
  - One or more Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS) snapshots, or, for instance-store-backed AMIs, a template for the root volume of the instance (for example, an operating system, an application server, and applications).
  - Launch permissions that control which AWS accounts can use the AMI to launch instances.
  - A block device mapping that specifies the volumes to attach to the instance when it's launched.

AMIs come in three main categories:
  - Community AMIs – free to use, generally you just select the operating system you want.
  - AWS Marketplace AMIs – pay to use, generally come packaged with additional, licensed software.
  - My AMIs – AMIs that you create yourself.

## Messaging and Queueing
For decoupled solutions, AWS provides two services:
  - **SQS (simple queue service)**: Amazon SQS is a message queuing service. SQS queues are places where messages are stored until they are processed.
    - send messages
    - store messages
    - receive messages
    - at any volume
    - payload is protected
    - no data lose
  - **SNS (simple notification service)**: Amazon SNS is a publish/subscribe service. Using Amazon SNS topics, a publisher publishes messages to subscribers. It is a channel for messages to be delivered, pub-sub pattern. Subscribers can be web servers, email, lambda functions etc.
 
## AWS Lambda 
AWS Lambda is a service that lets you run code without needing to provision or manage servers. AWS Lambda executes code only when needed and scales automatically.

#### How AWS Lambda works
  - You upload your code to Lambda. 
  - You set your code to trigger from an event source, such as AWS services, mobile applications, or HTTP endpoints.
  - Lambda runs your code only when triggered.
  - You pay only for the compute time that you use. In the previous example of resizing images, you would pay only for the compute time that you use when uploading new images. Uploading the images triggers Lambda to run code for the image resizing function.

#### Benefits of AWS Lambda
  - No servers to manage
  - Continuous auto scaling
  - Subsecond metering
  - Integrates with almost all other AWS services

## Container
Containers provide you with a standard way to package your application's code and dependencies into a single object. You can also use containers for processes and workflows in which there are essential requirements for security, reliability, and scalability.

#### AWS ECS (Elastic container service)
ECS is a highly scalable, high-performance container management system that enables you to run and scale containerized applications on AWS. ECS can run on top of EC2, so then you can manage details under the hood.

Amazon ECS supports Docker containers. Docker enables you to build, test and deploy applications quickly. AWS supports both open-source Docker Community Edition and subscription-based Docker Enterprise Edition. With Amazon ECS, you can use API calls to launch and stop Docker-enabled applications.

#### Amazon EKS (Elastic Kubernetes Service)
EKS is a fully managed service that you can use to run Kubernetes on AWS. 

Kubernetes is open-source software that enables you to deploy and manage containerized applications at scale. A large community of volunteers maintains Kubernetes, and AWS actively works together with the Kubernetes community. As new features and functionalities release for Kubernetes applications, you can easily apply these updates to your applications managed by Amazon EKS.

#### AWS Fargate
AWS Fargate is a serverless compute engine for containers. It works with both Amazon ECS and Amazon EKS. Fargate is used to deploy containers, which is a managed service that removes the access to low level components such as the operational system.  It's a managed service.

When using AWS Fargate, you do not need to provision or manage servers. AWS Fargate manages your server infrastructure for you. You can focus more on innovating and developing your applications, and you pay only for the resources that are required to run your containers.



