# Global infrastructure and reliability

### Region
A region is a geographical area. Four business factors to consider when determining the right Region 
  - Compliance with data governance and legal requirements
  - Proximity and latency
  - Available services
  - Pricing

### Availability Zones
An Availability Zone is a single data center or a group of data centers within a Region. Availability Zones are located tens of miles apart from each other.

### Edge locations
Edge locations are Content Delivery Network (CDN) endpoints for CloudFront. CloudFront uses edge locations to store cached copies of your content closer 
to your customers for faster delivery.

### How to provision AWS resources
In AWS everything is an API call, there are pre determined ways to interact with AWS services. 
There are a few options to interact with those services, for example:
  - AWS management console (web based, visually)
  - AWS Command line interface (CLI - API calls via terminal)
  - AWS Software Development Kits (SDKs - interface for different programming languages)

### AWS Elastic Beanstalk (EB)
Elastic beanstalk (EB) is a AWS managed service that manages EC2 instances. EB provides a way of making the process repeatable and prevent the possible human error 
during deployment. You provide code and configuration settings, and Elastic Beanstalk deploys the resources necessary to perform the following tasks:
  - Adjust capacity
  - Load balancing
  - Automatic scaling
  - Application health monitoring

### AWS CloudFormation
CloudFormation is a service that AWS provides to provision services through XML or JSON declarative scripts called CloudFormation templates. This kind of 
approach of serving infrastructure on a coded basis is known as Infrastructure as Code (IaC). A declarative format like this allows you to define what you want 
to build without specifying the details of exactly how to build it. CloudFormation lets you define what you want and the CloudFormation engine will worry about 
the details on calling APIs to get everything built out. It also isn't just limited to EC2-based solutions. CloudFormation supports many different AWS resources 
from storage, databases, analytics, machine learning, and more. Once you define your resources in a CloudFormation template, 
CloudFormation will parse the template and begin provisioning all the resources you defined in parallel. CloudFormation manages all the calls to the backend AWS 
APIs for you. You can run the same CloudFormation template in multiple accounts or multiple regions, and it will create identical environments across them. There 
is less room for human error as it is a totally automated process. 
