# Chapter 4: Networking

## VPC - Virtual Private Cloud
VPC is a networking service that you can use to establish boundaries around your AWS resources.
  - VPC is logically isolated from other virtual networks in the AWS Cloud.
  - When you create a VPC, you must specify a range of IPv4 addresses for the VPC in the form of a CIDR (Classless Inter-Domain Routing) block.
  - VPC spans all the Availability Zones in the region.
  - User can create own IP address range, subnets, route tables and network gateways.
  - Every AWS account has default VPC for each region.

**Internet Gateway** 
  - Establishes connection between a VPC and the public internet.
  - Horizontally scaled, redundant and highly available.

**Virtual Private Gateway** 
  - Allows access to private resources in a VPC.
  - Enables you to establish a VPN (virtual private network) connection between your VPC and a private network, such as an on-premises data center or internal corporate network.
  - Allows traffic into the VPC only if it is coming from an approved network.

**AWS Direct Connect**
  - Provides dedicated private connection between your data center and a VPC.
  - Reduce network costs 
  - Increase the amount of bandwidth that can travel through your network.

**Subnets**
  - A subnet is a section of a VPC in which you can group resources based on security or operational needs.
  - When creating subnet, you specify the CIDR block for the subnet, which is a subset of the VPC CIDR block.
  - Subnets can be public or private.
  - Public subnets contain resources that need to be accessible by the public, such as your web application.
  - Private subnets contain resources that should be accessible only through your private network, such as a database.
  - In a VPC, subnets can communicate with each other (both private and public).
  - The default VPC has all public subnets in each AZ.
  - Subnet is AZ specific. 

**Network access control lists (ACLs)**
  - Network ACL is a virtual firewall that controls inbound and outbound traffic at the subnet level.
  - Provides a firewall/security layer at subnet level.
  - Does not evaluate the packet content, it evaluates only if the packet can go in or out.
  - All AWS account includes a default network ACL.
  - Default network ACL allows all inbound and outbound traffic.
  - Have explicit deny rule for both inbound and outbound.
  - Perform stateless packet filtering. They remember nothing and check packets every time.

**Security groups**
  - A security group is a virtual firewall that controls inbound and outbound traffic for an Amazon EC2 instance.
  - Provides a firewall/security layer at EC2 level.
  - Default security group denies all inbound traffic and allows all outbound traffic.
  - Within a subnet, multiple EC2 can use same security group.
  - Perform stateful packet filtering. They remember previous decisions made for incoming packets.

**Route 53**
  - Route 53 is a DNS service.
  - Connects user requests to infrastructure running in AWS (such as Amazon EC2 instances and load balancers).
  - Can route users to infrastructure outside of AWS.
  - Can manage the DNS records for domain names.
  - You can register new domain names directly in Route 53.
  - You can also transfer DNS records for existing domain names managed by other domain registrars.
  - Route 53 can route traffic based on the following policies:
    - Latency-based routing
    - Geo-location DNS (Domain Name System)
    - Geo-proximity routing
    - weighted round robin





