# Storage and Database

### Instance stores
  - block-level storage
  - temporary
  - attached to EC2
  - lifespan is same as the EC2 instance
  - When the instance is terminated, you lose any data in the instance store.

### EBS - Elastic Block Storage
  - block-level storage
  - persistent type
  - consistent and low-latency performance
  - If you stop or terminate an Amazon EC2 instance, all the data on the attached EBS volume remains available.
  - You can take incremental backups of EBS volumes by creating Amazon EBS snapshots.
  - AZ service. Ec2 must be in same AZ to atatch.
  - **EBS snapshot**
    - EBS snapshot is an incremental backup
    - first backup taken of a volume copies all the data
    - For subsequent backups, only the blocks of data that have changed since the most recent snapshot are saved. 

### S3 - Simple Storage Service
  - S3 is object storage built to store and retrieve any amount of data from anywhere
  - designed to deliver 99.999999999% durability
  - persistent
  - object-level storage
  - stores data as objects in buckets
  - each object consists of data, metadata, key and version
  - can store any type of file
  - S3 offers unlimited storage space
  - maximum file size for an object in S3 is 5 TB
  - versioning is available
  - data can be public or private
  - **S3 storage classes**
    - **S3 Standard**
      - Designed for frequently accessed data
      - Stores data in a minimum of three Availability Zones
      - higher cost
      - good for websites, content distribution, and data analytics
    - **S3 Standard-Infrequent Access (S3 Standard-IA)**
      - Ideal for infrequently accessed but requires high availability
      - lower storage price and higher retrieval price
      - store data in a minimum of three Availability Zones
    - **S3 One Zone-Infrequent Access (S3 One Zone-IA)**
      - Stores data in a single Availability Zone
      - lower price than S3 Standard-IA
    - **S3 Intelligent-Tiering**
      - Ideal for data with unknown or changing access patterns
      - Requires a small monthly monitoring and automation fee per object
      - object that haven’t accessed for 30 consecutive days, automatically moves it to the S3 Standard-IA
    - **S3 Glacier**
      - Low-cost
      - designed for data archiving
      - retrieve objects within a few minutes to hours
    - **S3 Glacier Deep Archive**
      - Lowest-cost
      - ideal for archiving
      - retrieve objects within 12 hours

### EFS - Elastic File System
  - fully-managed service
  - uses the NFS protocol
  - EFS is elastic and grows and shrinks as you add and remove data
  - Can scale up to petabytes
  - can be connected to multiple EC2 instance at a time
  - Good for big data and analytics, media processing workflows, content management, web serving, home directories etc.
  - Regional service. available in all AZ in this region.

