# Chapter 7: Monitoring and Analytics

### Amazon CloudWatch
  - enables you to monitor and manage various metrics and configure alarm actions based on data from those metrics.
  - CloudWatch uses metrics to represent the data points for your resources. 
  - AWS services send metrics to CloudWatch.
  - CloudWatch then uses these metrics to create graphs automatically that show how performance has changed over time. 
  - you can create alarms that automatically perform actions if the value of your metric has gone above or below a predefined threshold.
  - can specify notification with alarm
  - CloudWatch is for performance monitoring
  - Used to collect and track metrics, collect and monitor log files, and set alarms
  - Automatically react to changes in your AWS resources
  - CloudWatch monitoring includes application performance
  - CloudTrail logs can be sent to CloudWatch Logs for real-time monitoring
  - Amazon CloudWatch uses Amazon SNS to send email


### AWS CloudTrail
  - CloudTrail records API calls for your account.
  - The recorded information includes
    - identity of the API caller
    - time of the API call
    - source IP address of the API caller
    - and more
  - You can think of CloudTrail as a “trail” of breadcrumbs (or a log of actions) that someone has left behind them.
  - you can view a complete history of user activity and API calls for your applications and resources. 
  - Events are typically updated in CloudTrail within 15 minutes after an API call.
  - You can filter events by many factors
  - CloudTrail Insights automatically detect unusual API activities in your AWS account. 
  - CloudTrail is for auditing
  - CloudTrail is enabled by default
  - You can integrate CloudTrail with CloudWatch Logs to deliver data events captured by CloudTrail to a CloudWatch Logs log stream.


### AWS Trusted Advisor
  - inspects AWS environment and provides real-time recommendations in accordance with AWS best practices.
  - Trusted Advisor compares its findings to AWS best practices in five categories
    - Cost optimization
    - Performance
    - Security
    - Fault tolerance
    - Service quotas
