# Chapter 8: Pricing and Support

### AWS Free Tier
The AWS Free Tier enables you to begin using certain services without having to worry about incurring costs for the specified period. Three types of offers are available: 
  - Always Free
    - Lambda allows 1 million free requests and up to 3.2 million seconds of compute time per month
    - DynamoDB allows 25 GB of free storage per month
  - 12 Months Free
  - Trials

### How AWS pricing works
  - Pay for what you use
  - Pay less when you reserve
  - Pay less with volume-based discounts when you use more

### Billing dashboard
  - pay your AWS bill, monitor your usage, and analyze and control your costs
  - Compare your current month-to-date balance with the previous month
  - get a forecast of the next month based on current usage
  - View month-to-date spend by service.
  - View Free Tier usage by service.
  - Access Cost Explorer and create budgets.
  - Purchase and manage Savings Plans.
  - Publish AWS Cost and Usage Reports.

### Consolidated billing
  - for aws organization account
  - receive a single bill for all AWS accounts in your organization
  - benefit of consolidated billing is the ability to share bulk discount pricing, Savings Plans, and Reserved Instances across the accounts in your organization.

### AWS Budgets
  - create budgets to plan your service usage, service costs, and instance reservations.
  - information in AWS Budgets updates 3 times a day
  - you can also set custom alerts when your usage exceeds

### AWS Cost Explorer
  - AWS Cost Explorer enables you to visualize, understand, and manage your AWS costs and usage over time.
  - AWS Cost Explorer includes a default report of the costs and usage for your top five cost-accruing AWS services.

### AWS Support
AWS offers four different Support plans to help you troubleshoot issues, lower costs, and efficiently use AWS services. 
  - Basic
    - free for all
    - includes access to whitepapers, documentation, and support communities
    - can contact AWS for billing questions and service limit increases
    - limited Trusted Advisor checks
    - can use the AWS Personal Health Dashboard, a tool that provides alerts and remediation guidance
  - Developer
    - pay-by-the-month pricing and require no long-term contracts 
    - lowest cost
    - Best practice guidance
    - Client-side diagnostic tools
    - Building-block architecture support
    - guidance for how to use AWS offerings, features, and services together
  - Business
    - pay-by-the-month pricing and require no long-term contracts 
    - moderate cost
    - All AWS Trusted Advisor checks
    - Limited support for third-party software
    - Use-case guidance to identify AWS offerings, features, and services
  - Enterprise
    - pay-by-the-month pricing and require no long-term contracts 
    - highest cost
    - Application architecture guidance, which is a consultative relationship to support your company’s specific use cases and applications
    - Infrastructure event management
    - A Technical Account Manager
      - The Enterprise Support plan includes access to a Technical Account Manager (TAM)
      - provide guidance, architectural reviews, and ongoing communication with your company as you plan, deploy, and optimize your applications. 
      - TAM provides expertise across the full range of AWS services.
      - They help you design solutions that efficiently use multiple services together through an integrated approach.
    
### AWS Marketplace
AWS Marketplace is a digital catalog that includes thousands of software listings from independent software vendors. You can use AWS Marketplace to find, test, and buy software that runs on AWS. 

### Report abuse
The AWS Trust & Safety team can assist you when AWS resources are used to engage in the following types of abusive behavior
  - Spam: You are receiving unwanted emails from an AWS-owned IP address, or AWS resources are used to spam websites or forums.
  - Port scanning: Your logs show that one or more AWS-owned IP addresses are sending packets to multiple ports on your server. You also believe this is an attempt to discover unsecured ports.
  - Denial-of-service (DoS) attacks: Your logs show that one or more AWS-owned IP addresses are used to flood ports on your resources with packets. You also believe that this is an attempt to overwhelm or crash your server or the software running on your server.
  - Intrusion attempts: Your logs show that one or more AWS-owned IP addresses are used to attempt to log in to your resources.
  - Hosting prohibited content: You have evidence that AWS resources are used to host or distribute prohibited content, such as illegal content or copyrighted content without the consent of the copyright holder.

### Notes
  - AWS Pricing Calculator create an estimate for the cost of your use cases on AWS.
