# Chapter 9: Migration and Innovation

### AWS Cloud Adoption Framework (AWS CAF)
AWS Cloud Adoption Framework (AWS CAF) organizes guidance into six areas of focus, called Perspectives. Each Perspective addresses distinct responsibilities. In general, the **Business, People and Governance** Perspectives focus on business capabilities, whereas the **Platform, Security and Operations** Perspectives focus on technical capabilities.


### Migration strategies
When migrating applications to the cloud, six of the most common migration strategies that you can implement are:
  - **Rehosting**
    - lift-and-shift
    - moving applications without changes 
  - **Replatforming**
    - lift, tinker, and shift
    - involves making a few cloud optimizations to see benefits
    - Optimization is achieved without changing the core architecture of the application
  - **Refactoring/re-architecting**
    - Refactoring / re-architecting involves reimagining how an application is architected and developed by using cloud-native features.
    - Refactoring is driven by a strong business need to add features, scale, or performance that would otherwise be difficult to achieve in the application’s existing environment.
  - **Repurchasing**
    - fresh start
    - involves moving from a traditional license to a software-as-a-service model.  
  - **Retaining**
    - keeps applications that are critical for the business in the source environment 
    - This might include applications that require major refactoring before they can be migrated, or, work that can be postponed until a later time.
  - **Retiring**
    - removing applications that are no longer needed.


### AWS Snow Family
The AWS Snow Family is a collection of physical devices that help to physically transport up to exabytes of data into and out of AWS. AWS owns and manages the Snow Family devices and integrates with AWS security, monitoring, storage management, and computing capabilities.  
  - **Snowcone**
    - a small, rugged, and secure edge computing and data transfer device. 
    - 2 CPUs, 4 GB of memory, and 8 TB of usable storage
  - **Snowball**
    - **Snowball Edge Storage Optimized**
      - well suited for large-scale data migrations and recurring transfer workflows
      - 80 TB HDD S3 compatible
      - 1 TB SATA SSD
      - 40 vCPUs and 80 GB memory
      - support EC2 sbe1 (equivalent to C5)
    - **Snowball Edge Compute Optimized**
      - provides powerful computing resources for use cases such as machine learning, full motion video analysis, analytics, and local computing stacks. 
      - 42 TB HDD S3 or EBS compatible
      - 7.68 TB nvme SSD
      - 52 vCPUs and 208 GB memory
      - optional NVIDIA Tesla V100 GPU
      - supports EC2 sbe-c and sbe-g (equivalent to C5, M5a, G3, and P3)
  - **Snowmobile**
    - an exabyte-scale data transfer service
    - used to move large amounts of data to AWS
    - 100 petabytes of data per Snowmobile
    - 45-foot long ruggedized shipping container, pulled by a semi trailer truck

### Innovate with AWS
When examining how to use AWS services, it is important to focus on the desired outcomes. You are properly equipped to drive innovation in the cloud if you can clearly articulate the following conditions: 
  - The current state
  - The desired state
  - The problems you are trying to solve

Consider some of the paths you might explore in the future as you continue on your cloud journey. 
  - Serverless applications
    - don’t require you to provision, maintain, or administer servers
    - AWS Lambda
  - Artificial intelligence
    - Convert speech to text with Amazon **Transcribe**
    - Discover patterns in text with Amazon **Comprehend**
    - Identify potentially fraudulent online activities with Amazon **Fraud Detector**
    - Build voice and text chatbots with Amazon **Lex**
  - Machine learning
    - Amazon **SageMaker** removes the difficult work from ML process and empower you to build, train, and deploy ML models quickly.
