# EC2 / ECC / Elastic Compute Cloud

## EC2
Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) is a web service with which you can run virtual server “instances” in the cloud. EC2 instances can run the Windows, Linux, or MacOS operating systems. It is designed to make web-scale cloud computing easier for developers.

#### Benefits of EC2
  - **Elastic Web-Scale computing** – you can increase or decrease capacity within minutes not hours and commission one to thousands of instances simultaneously.
  - **Completely controlled** – You have complete control include root access to each instance and can stop and start instances without losing data and using web service APIs.
  - **Flexible Cloud Hosting Services** – you can choose from multiple instance types, operating systems, and software packages as well as instances with varying memory, CPU and storage configurations.
  - **Integrated** – EC2 is integrated with most AWS services such as S3, RDS, and VPC to provide a complete, secure solution.
  - **Reliable** – EC2 offers a highly reliable environment where replacement instances can be rapidly and predictably commissioned with SLAs of 99.99% for each region.
  - **Secure** – EC2 works in conjunction with VPC to provide a secure location with an IP address range you specify and offers Security Groups, Network ACLs, and IPSec VPN features.
  - **Inexpensive** – Amazon passes on the financial benefits of scale by charging very low rates and on a capacity consumed basis.

#### EC2 Instance types
Each EC2 instance type is grouped under an instance family. Instance types offer different combinations of storage, memory, processing power.
  - General purpose (Balanced resources: Web servers/code repository)
  - Computer optimized (Compute intensive tasks: Gaming servers, high performance computing - HPC, Scientific modeling, batch processing)
  - Memory optimized (Memory intensive tasks)
  - Accelerated computing (Floating point number calculations, Graphics processing, Data pattern matching, hardware accelerators)
  - Storage optimized (High performance for locally stored data)
  - etc ...

#### Pricing
  - On-demand instance:
      - Good for users that want the low cost and flexibility of EC2 without any up-front payment or long term commitment.
      - Applications with short term, spiky, or unpredictable workloads that cannot be interrupted.
      - Applications being developed or tested on EC2 for the first time.
  - Reserved instance:
      - Applications with steady state or predictable usage.
      - Applications that require reserved capacity.
      - Users can make up-front payments to reduce their total computing costs even further.
      - Standard Reserved Instances (RIs) provide up to 75% off on-demand price.
      - Convertible RIs provide up to 54% off on-demand price – provides the capability to change the attributes of the RI as long as the exchange results in the creation of RIs of equal or greater value.
      - Scheduled RIs are available to launch within the time window you reserve. This option allows you to match your capacity reservation to a predictable recurring schedule that only requires a fraction of a day, a week, or a month.
  - Spot instance:
      - Applications that have flexible start and end times.
      - Applications that are only feasible at very low compute prices.
      - Users with an urgent need for a large amount of additional compute capacity.
      - If Amazon terminate your instances you do not pay, if you terminate you pay for the hour.
  - Dedicated hosts:
      - Physical servers dedicated just for your use.
      - You then have control over which instances are deployed on that host.
      - Available as On-Demand or with Dedicated Host Reservation.Useful if you have server-bound software licences that use metrics like per-core, per-socket, or per-VM.
      - Each dedicated host can only run one EC2 instance size and type.
      - Good for regulatory compliance or licensing requirements.
      - Predictable performance.
      - Complete isolation.
      - Most expensive option.
      - Billing is per host.
  - Dedicated instances:
      - Virtualized instances on hardware just for you.
      - Also uses physically dedicated EC2 servers.
      - Does not provide the additional visibility and controls of dedicated hosts (e.g. how instance are placed on a server).
      - Billing is per instance.
      - May share hardware with other non-dedicated instances in the same account.
      - Available as On-Demand, Reserved Instances, and Spot Instances.
      - Cost additional $2 per hour per region.
  - Besides that, the price can vary based on:
      - Instance type (micro, small, large, etc). Instance type refers to a combination of resources such as CPU, memory, storage, and networking capacity.
      - Selected region
      - Number of instances
      - Load balancing
      - Allocated elastic IP addresses

#### EC2 scaling
  - **Vertical scaling**: EC2 are resizable as well, you can upgrade or downgrade hardware aspects of the instance such as: processing power, memory and HD.
  - **Horizontal scaling**: creating new instances and adding them to the pool
      - Dynamic scaling: responds to changing demand - Auto scaling.
      - Predictive scaling: schedule the right number of EC2 based on predicted demand.

#### Elastic load balancing (ELB)
Load balancing distributes incoming application traffic across multiple resources and its built on regional construct, it runs on regional level. The ELB has the following characteristics:
  - High performance
  - Cost-efficient
  - Highly available
  - Automatically scalable

AWS provides different ELB solutions for each kind of work load:
   - Application load balancer: load balancing of HTTP and HTTPS traffic
   - Network load balancer: load balancing TCP traffic
   - Classic load balancer: basic load balancing across multiple Amazon EC2 instances. The classic load balancer is intended for applications that were built within the EC2-classic network.
 


